we start with a major breakthrough in
the Middle East nearly two months after
their worst nightmare began a sigh of
relief for the families of 50 women and
children held hostage by Hamas in the
early hours of Wednesday Israeli Prime
Minister Netanyahu announced a hard
fought deal that will see the release of
50 hostages in return for a 4-day truce
as well as the release of 150
Palestinian Prisoners the pause in
fighting will also allow for
humanitarian Aid and fuel to enter the
Gaza Strip now Qatar which helped broker
the agreement said the starting time of
the truce would be announced within the
next 24
hours now under the agreement Hamas is
set to Free 50 of the hostages it took
in the October 7th terror attack uh on
Israel in exchange around 150
Palestinian prisoners held in Israel
will also be set free and as part of the
deal there will be a pause in fighting
between Israel and Hamas for 4 days and
access to humanitarian Aid Israel has
also said it would extend the truce if
additional hostages are
released and we're going to go straight
to our correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem Rebecca what what more can you
tell us uh about this hostage deal and
uh ceasefire
well it was a much a way to deal as you
mentioned you you talked about a lot of
the details there we're talking about 50
hostages uh women and children the
breakdown we think appears to be 30
children uh 12 mothers and eight women
and priority of course being given to
the elderly and INF firm we know that
this is in exchange for what looks to be
4-day a 4-day ceasefire uh in
hostilities for human itarian Aid to be
allowed in to the strip and also for the
coordination of the release of these
hostages uh we know that also uh Israel
has agreed to release 150 that's a 3:1
ratio for the hostages three Palestinian
prisoners for every one hostage released
so we're looking at about 150 also women
and children Palestinian prisoners uh
that will be released as a part of this
deal and as you mentioned of course uh a
large of Aid will then be able to be
transported into the Gaza Strip where it
is sorely needed for the civilians who
are suffering dire humanitarian uh
situation there that's been unfolding
for weeks now and of course much needed
fuel fuel to be able to help run the
hospitals to help run telecommunication
systems uh and many other things of
course generators to to create power so
this Landmark deal the first cessation
in
hostilities hopefully as you mentioned
uh soon to begin within the next 24
hours let's talk about timing is it
clear yet when the first hostages will
be released has there been any time
suggested yet more
specifically nothing more specific than
that 24-hour window at this stage uh a
list of some 300 potential Palestinian
Prisoners has been released and the the
there is an idea that that now Israeli
citizens who may have been affected by
something that the the Palestinian
prisoners were arrested for would be
able to uh make a petition to the high
court so that's there's a legal
procedure legal process 24 hours being
given for people to to file a petition
now if of course there are no delays
there then we'll start hearing a more
concrete timing we do know that they're
going to be releasing potentially 12 to
13 prisoners per day to allow for the
truth to keep ongoing a sort of peaca uh
part of the processes it's also
incredibly difficult uh process to
organize the release of these hostages
as you can imagine being coordinated
also with the Red Cross Red Cross will
we've been hearing able to access uh the
hostages prior to them being released
and be able to administer some Medical
Care there but it is going to be a
dayslong process and as you mentioned
something that may be extended should
more uh more hostages be negotiated to
be released for every 10 hostages there
will be one more day of ceasefire is
there anything more uh specific you can
tell us about the Palestinian uh
prisoners due to be released as part of
this
agreement well the idea is that they
will also be women and children
Ana uh there are boys on the list but no
men um there have been 300 names as I
just mentioned that have been
potentially released now that's Al
that's of course to find 150 that
they'll that no one will take issue with
with their release but also to allow for
wiggle room for more prisoners to be
released should more hostages be
released as I just mentioned there is a
sort of second phase of the deal kind of
tied into this one where we could see
potentially more hostages released in
exchange for more prisoners and more
ceasefire uh up to a maximum of 10 days
is what has been published in the
cabinet agreement so far so uh in terms
of more details on those Prisoners the
list has been uh published the names are
out there uh but most people I sort of
slowly looking through the list uh
before coming on air and you see a lot
of people um who uh are listed for for
quite Petty crimes I think it's unlikely
that we'll see anybody who who has um
you know perpetrated any serious crimes
being released and we know also I should
add that nobody on a murder charge will
be released now uh some members of uh
prime minister netanyahu's coalition
government did not support this hostage
release deal can you explain to us why
that
is well it's uh seen as quite a
contentious deal by many members of the
far right factions uh we saw three
members of the odds Yehuda the Jewish
power party uh vote against the hostage
deal they say this is playing into the
hands of Hamas giving them a free kick
if you will because they say that by
giving them these ceasefires that the
this or this humanitarian ceasefire even
though it's only for a few days will
allow them the opportunity to be able to
rearm to to reestablish reconnect and
and and work out you know ways to go
forward in this conflict ways to be able
to keep uh attacking the Israeli
military in this war so they were very
against it but in the end an
overwhelming majority did vote in favor
33 versus three uh and uh even people
who had slight concerns including the
Finance Minister betel smotrich it does
appear that they were one over when uh
departments like the Mossad and the
internal security services the Shin Bet
said that they were on fact on board
with this deal and they thought that it
was good that seemed to convince a
majority of people to vote in favor okay
now uh again the Prime Minister uh
Israeli Prime Minister had previously
resisted entering into any kind of
ceasefire deal why has he agree to this
one I think it's the overwhelming
pressure that he's been facing by the
families of the hostages as well as the
Israeli public I mean this has affected
you know the the the the the psyche of
Israel and Israelis and I think there's
been a lot of pressure on him we've seen
you know protests we've seen marches and
we've seen lobbying to particular
ministers we've seen the families even
in the knesset with heated debates with
parliamentarians so you know the the
prime minister is under very very severe
pressure to try to get all of the
hostages out of course but some hostages
are seen as better than no hostages at
all and it is what he has been saying
has been the second aim of this military
operation one of course being to
eradicate Hamas but the other of course
to bring the hostages home and he has to
try and do everything that he can to to
to make that happen and and we're seeing
that the pressure has mounted and that
days and days of negotiations also
negotiating with the right factions of
his of his government
uh to try to make sure that everybody is
on board and now obviously he's been
able to agree you know he's he's seen
parts of the deal he's been able to
agree to this deal I should say thanks
so much for that update Rebecca that's
Rebecca rit's reporting from
Jerusalem now we're hearing First
Reactions from those most directly
affected by this deal the relatives of
the kidnapped 63-year-old gillad Coral
has seven missing family members who are
believed to be among the hostages held
by Hamas on Wednesday morning gillad
described his feelings after news broke
of the truce and the hostage deal
between Israel and Hamas uh one side I'm
I'm happy second uh I'm I'm worried okay
because uh nobody told me that my uh
family will be this in this uh this uh
uh
deal okay there was 40 children
inside Gaza and they go to only 30 where
are the others I don't know and I hope
that everybody will
release it's terrible 7 weeks it's I
think it's never happened in in my life
for sure but uh in in in the history of
the uh human being like too many
hostages too many children too many
babies too many women
um I don't know how I feel right
now I want to be sure that my family
will
release at least the the grandsons and
the my daughter
low and then we
continue and for more I'm joined Now by
our Middle East analyst shannie rosanas
shannie good to good to see you uh this
deal has been weeks in the making um
obviously the hostages were taken on the
October the 7th um tell us more about
What's led to this breakthrough well I
think Israel has realized that its
strong operation in Gaza is not yielding
the result um it it wanted at the
beginning there was still hope there was
one soldier they managed the Israeli
forces IDF forces managed to release
they realize this is not going to happen
there growing International pressure to
bring more humanitarian Aid into Gaza so
it was clear this needs to happen and
Israel wanted clearly always to said
we're going to pound we're going to
crush Gaza
uh and we hope this will make Hamas
agree to concessions and to bring some
hostages uh to be released and finally
Israel feels like this has yield the
result that they wanted um there's also
for Israel when it comes to the
offensive up you know on the ground it's
the time to move from the south uh from
the north to the south of Gaza and seem
to be a good timing we also the key here
is also for Hamas Hamas wants and needs
time to recoup to get fuel which is the
most important thing they're also
getting from the deal aside from
humanitarian Aid um and it seems like
both sides have realized 47 days of um
attacks and counterattacks have not
really yielded much more uh for this
moment there needs to be some change now
we know that Israeli citizens have 24
hours um to petition the high court
against the release of the uh
Palestinian prisoners as part of this
deal How likely is that and and how
would the high court react we will see
petitions we already know know of
several organizations mostly identified
with a right sng with the Jewish power
party also that we've we've heard that
were objecting this deal um they will
petition the court will traditionally
before have always always said this is
no no decision for the court we we pass
the ball to the government this is a
fully political decision we have we
trust in the government to take the best
decision on that uh the procedure still
needs to be made they still need to
petition they will probably be rejected
but this also takes time that needs to
be calibrated into the system of how you
know what the next steps are tell us
about the general response within uh
Israel to this hostage deal I mean
obviously it's been a massively emotive
and emotional situation in Israel it is
it's you know the the hostages families
have been living through hell in the
last 47 days and and and there's always
in Israel there's a lot of emphasis on
the uh psych psychological warfare of
Hamas and the feeling that you know this
is an ongoing torture um and so now it's
the same thing because one of the
reasons we understand there been delay
in the U in the agreement on the deal so
far was that Hamas refuses to take
responsibility on all the kids and and
their moms that are held in in Gaza um
they said we know of only a certain
amount of them Israel was pushing them
you got to take responsibility on all of
them it's still unclear who of the 30
kids that we know of and their mothers
will be released um and that also means
that families all these families have
been United in the last 47 days together
in this effort to bring back their loved
ones they're torn apart between them
some of them will get the best news that
there are some of them will still be
left hanging and there's also the um
fundamental question if if if I am a
woman you know there will be women
released um but there is a man that is
wounded and needs treatment why would I
get a priority over that you know these
are internal moral dilemmas Israel is
torn with it's not a happy day there
aren't many happy days in Israel these
days and this one also very
cautiously has a glimpse of Hope but I
don't see we will I don't think we will
see a lot of
gushing and public um you know
expressions of real Joy uh everything is
still very um emotional and very tense
shaie rosanas thank you so much we'll
come back to you later but for now thank
you now in a statement before the
cabinet uh meeting in Israel prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu stressed
that the pause in the fighting that's
been agreed Now does not mean the end of
the war with let's take a
listen we are at War and we will
continue the war we will continue the
war until we achieve all our objectives
eliminate Hamas return all our abductees
and missing persons and ensure that
there will be no element in Gaza that
threatens
Israel the Israeli Prime Minister there
now my colleague Terry Martin spoke
earlier to Peter Lerner he's a
spokesperson for the isra isi military
the IDF and he asked him when the first
hostages are likely to be released
indeed the um framework is being
processed we have a due process in
Israel and of course there's a a legal
process that is undergoing as uh your
report as Rebecca announced uh the the
names of the terrorists H that are going
to be released has been uh announced to
the public and anybody that has a
problem with that list can appeal uh to
the Supreme Court and now only after
that process is completed will will
there be able to be a uh an instruction
to the military to hold its fire and to
enable the the release of the hostages
and and the the terrorists into uh as
agreed uh the situation on the ground
continue continues this morning to be a
a situation of uh combat the IDF is
continuing to pursue Hamas terrorists
wherever they are hiding we are
destroying and dismantling the tunnels
that we are encountering and engaging
the enemy wherever they
are does the Israeli Army have a role in
the actual release process do you know
uh are the are are the IDF forces going
to be escorting the hostages out of Gaza
delivering the released Palestinian
prisoners uh well of course the
situation is uh first of all the role is
to hold fire once we receive that
instruction that in in itself uh is a
huge feat because we have to be in
defensive positions we need to uh make
sure that what happened in 2014 where
Hamas continue to uh to attack US during
ceasefires and abduct Israeli soldiers
doesn't happen again so of course there
is a significant role in maintaining and
implementing the government's
instructions but we will do so
nevertheless U the reality on the ground
is one where as you rightly quoted prime
minister netan is Hamas still need to go
Hamas still can never be allowed to
wield this sword of death above our
heads ever again and that is why the the
the the paes in the hostilities the PA
in the in the combat will uh will take
place uh but after that we are intending
on to continue our operation in order to
relieve the region and uh um bring home
more hostages the the hostages you know
the youngest is 10 months old this is
the the enemy that we are facing and we
are determined to bring all of hostages
home and create a better security regime
for Israelis and Palestinians
alike now part of the deal as you
mentioned is a is a is a truce a 4-day
truce uh obviously there's still
fighting going on there uh is there
fighting happening right now as we speak
Colonel
lenner uh the operations are ongoing and
we are achieving our goals as we speak
absolutely the reality on the ground is
that Hamas are still engaging our forces
and we are seeking them out and pursuing
them wherever they are you know they
come out of tunnels launch RPGs against
our forces uh and we are destroying the
tunnel Network as we speak you know the
the situation of hostages has been and
it goes hand inand with the operational
achievements and directives that we've
we've um uh been guided to since the
beginning of the war and you know we
need the hostages home and we also need
Hamas to go wherever they are they need
to be pursued
How concerned are you that Hamas will be
able to use the truce to regroup and
rearm especially given that Israel has
reportedly committed to at least a
partial suspension of air reconnaissance
during the
troops so our activities will be paused
in accordance to the government's
directives uh those that pause is in
order in order to enable the access of
humanitarian Goods of supplies to the
people of Gaza the people of Gaza are
not our enemy but Hamas is the eny enemy
and of course this enemy is a ruthless
merciless enemy and we can't trust them
and we don't trust them so of course we
will be watching very very carefully and
utilizing all of the tools and available
to us in order to address that threat
and indeed it is a threat but you know
the idea of and the possibility of
bringing the hostages home in this case
is is a is of utmost importance and that
is why we are focused on bringing them
home now your stated goal is to
eliminate Hamas and remove any military
threat from Gaza how close are you
Colonel danana to achieving those
goals so we understand that we have dis
destroyed extensive presence in the
northern Gaza Strip um several
battalions have been dispersed and
destroyed and dismantled we are engaging
the tunnel Warfare the tunnel
capabilities that Hamas had uh
prepositioned and built over the last 16
years in in Northern Gaza and and
throughout and we are engaging them
wherever they are indeed there is they
still have operational capabilities but
they are definitely on the run and I
would say the result of this agreement
or this agreement the framework of
releasing hostages is a result of the
extreme pressure that the IDF has put on
Hamas on its leadership on its
organization and its ability to conduct
its operations against us so I would say
we're moving close every closer every
single day to achieving our our ultimate
goal of securing and safe restoring
safety to the people of Israel Israelis
living in the communities surrounding
the Gaza Strip but not only because they
continue to fire rockets at us and and
this is something that we won't
accept and that was Peter Lerner
spokesperson for the Israeli Army the
IDF speaking to DW earlier now Germany
has welcomed the deal between Israel and
Hamas foreign minister analina bbok
described the agreement to release some
of the host hostages as a breakthrough
she also urged for Vital Aid to be
distributed among the people of Gaza
Germany as well as the United States the
UK and the European Union have rejected
calls for a long-term ceasefire arguing
that it could give Hamas time to
regroup we're going to cross straight to
DW's political correspondent Matthew
Moore who joins us now from our
parliamentary studios here in Berlin
Matthew has there been any another
reaction yet from Berlin to the news of
this hostage deal apart from what we
just
heard beyond that statement there really
hasn't been much reaction Anya not from
the chancellor or other government
ministers which I think perhaps speaks
to a sense of cautious optimism some
senior MPS though have been tweeting
Mikel wrote a former Junior minister in
the foreign Ministry who happens to be
in Israel this morning tweeted a photo
of a meeting with relatives of hostages
and he wrote wrote it was an important
step but we can only rest when all the
hostages are free another MP tweeted
saying it was a good deal but it but
that it was vital that quote Hamas
butchers were held accountable and
disempowered I going back to analena
bearok statement she specifically
pointed out that being liberated was not
would not heal the suffering that these
hostages have endured and again she
talked about the need to use the poses
to get Aid to gazin and what do we know
about any German Nationals who who may
be among the
hostages that well we know that of the
some 240 hostages being held by Hamas we
understand that a small double digit
number of them hold German
citizenship last month actually some of
their relatives traveled to Berlin to
Lobby Chancellor schz and president
Stein Meer and other government
ministers to do all they can to bring
their loved ones home and for a German
audience really brought the conflict
closer to home relatives were on the
talk shows they were in newspapers and
basically part of their campaign was to
to keep their loved ones very much in
the thoughts and minds of the German
politicians but also the German public
and I remember speaking to one kind of
90-year-old man who sister and
brother-in-law um were held captive by
Hamas and he was telling me that you
know he's helpless but he got a few
minutes with Chancellor Schulz and he
told them then that he wanted him to put
pressure on Egypt and Qatar and you know
I got in touch with the family again and
the representatives and they say today
they're simply they don't know whether
their relatives will be the ones that
will be liberated and they're basically
under a cloud of uncertainty and they
can only hope uh and wait so do we
actually know if Germany has played any
role at all in these uh hostage
negotiations well from the beginning
German leaders have traveled through the
region Chancellor sches was held talks
with the Jordanian King with the
Egyptian president and the Amir of Qatar
all key players in the region and
importantly conduit to Hamas in an
interview with DW this week the forign
minister an Alena bbok was quite candid
about the Diplomatic
negotiations going kind of behind the
scenes saying how sensitive they are how
tricky it is to negotiates he was
talking about the the the fact that
you're dealing with the political wing
of Hamas which is in
Qatar and it's very different and it's
separate to the jihadist wing based in
Gaza and she talked about the the
efforts that the International Community
were were
um carrying out they're trying to get
Hamas to put all the hostages in Gaza in
one place just physically have them in
one place I think she she was they felt
that that would improve their welfare
and make it easier to ultimately secure
all of their release um and not just a
few a few groups at a time so again just
really underlining how Frau this is um
and coming to an agreement is okay now
we heard the foreign minister um earlier
saying that the truce should be used to
get Aid to gazans what help is is
Germany sending
so officials you know to describe the
situation in Gaza is disastrous and um
they have basically pledged more and
more money to United Nations and the Red
Cross there I think um the the number
now that that Germany is sending to to
organizations is 160 Million worth of
Aid this year making sure it gets to
gazin is really important they' they've
um appointed an Envoy to to coordinate
that um to get the food water medical
supplies to the people most need to make
sure that it doesn't go and end up in
the hands of
Hamas Matthew Moore our political
correspondent thank you so much for that
update now the president of the European
commission Osa ferion has welcomed the
hostage deal as well between Israel and
Hamas in a statement she said the
European commission will do its utmost
to use this pause for a humanitarian
surge to
Gaza
let's get more on the European reaction
uh from DW correspondent Rosie burchard
who joins us now from Strasburg which is
where the European Parliament meets good
to see you Rosie the uh EU has welcomed
the hostage release uh at today's
plenary debate what more have you heard
from EU officials
there officials and lawmakers from the
EU have been gathering in this room
behind me and of course the first
message was really one of a wholehearted
welcome the EU said it however re
iterates it call for all hostages to be
released and there was talk again of
trying to use this this expected pause
as a way to Surge humanitarian Aid into
Gaza and with that in mind the Block's
humanitarian Aid chief called for
greater humanitarian access into Gaza so
the aid the EU is sending can actually
make it in now Beyond this there's also
been a bit of reflection here about the
longer term looking back and looking to
the Future and the eu's foreign policy
Chief yose barell issued what I would
say was a bit of an indictment of the
Block's foreign policy over the last few
years because he said basically for
decades the EU has been talking about a
two-state solution in the Middle East
that is what the block officially calls
for but he said that has been backed up
by very little action I wanted to
actually ask you about Joseph Bell's
comments because obviously very directly
addressing the lack of unity in the EU
when it comes to conflict I mean was
that picked up in today's debate at
all absolutely I think it's really
interesting usually EU officials will
try and kind of paper over the cracks in
the division of course 27 different
member states have different opinions
but here Burell the EU foreign policy
Chief really acknowledged it he said
there has been disunity the EU hasn't
spoken with one voice and he
acknowledged he said that he's trying to
converge so that the EU can bring some
sort of diplomatic weight here now since
the start of this since October 7th
attacks the EU has been United in its
condemnation of Hamas and it's United in
its call for for the release of hostages
but where it has been divided is in how
to move forward and particularly some EU
member states have been calling for a
ceasefire for example Ireland Spain
others have been much more reticent on
that fearing that could only serve to
embolden Hamas which is of course
recognized by the European Union as a
terror organization now with regards to
all these divisions which are still in
place I think critics would say that
while these important deals like the one
we heard about today are being
negotiated it looks like the EU really
seems to be much more of a bystander
than any sort of a real major broker
here and that's what Burell was seemed
to be referring to when he said he would
like to try and converge positions in
order to bring some sort of geopolitical
influence in future okay and Rosie we've
talked about this
humanitarian surge to Gaza can you just
give us a few more details about the uh
the humanitarian Aid what's been
discussed about
that so the European Union has around
quadrupled its human itarian Aid to Gaza
since October 7th so that's things like
medical supplies things like food and
that's been pretty much accepted by all
member states it's not been really a big
source of division where there has been
more debate Ana is when it comes to
development Aid so that's long-term
funding uh which goes to Palestinians so
for example for infrastructure for
education and there we heard uh the very
early days after this original attacks
by Hamas an announcement that the EU
would be reviewing development Aid to
Palestinians there was in fact an
announcement that it would be suspended
and then that was retracted part of this
whole what looked at the time like a
real foreign policy model the EU has now
announced that it's completed its review
of that development Aid funding and that
it hasn't found any major cause for
concern or any suggestion that funds
have been diverted to Hamas that was the
fear that had initially been raised but
it does say it's going to be looking a
bit more measures for scrutiny increased
scrutiny for future for this kind of
long-term development Aid to
Palestinians that in itself has proved
divisive because we have some saying
well if you haven't found any cause for
concern this is not the time to be
adding additional barriers but of course
within this really heated geopolitical
context that's what the the European
commission says is needed moving forward
Rosie thanks so much for that really
appreciate it that's DW's Rosie burchard
reporting from
Strasburg and joining me again now in
our studio here is DW's Middle East
analyst shaie rosan it's good to see you
again shaie so uh as we were saying
earlier we know that this deal has now
been agreed um but obviously now it has
to be implemented doesn't it so you know
what could go wrong what are the
potential pitfalls here so many things
can go right I mean Israel has
experienced from 2014 when there was
back then a ceasefire uh decided upon
and and Hamas forces have attacked
Israeli forces and killed one of uh
Israel's soldiers it's still a holds its
body it's it's a very painful traumatic
memory for Israel so they're very much
afraid of that what's going to happen I
mean can Hamas actually control all of
the mil militants on the ground does he
even have contact with all of them do
they all in line agree and in line with
this deal that's that's one thing and
that's why Israeli forces in the next 24
hours will try to bring themselves into
safer positions because Israel does not
plan to withdraw from the strip but
further more within the deals mechanism
we're built Securities to assure that to
both sides that they will stick to their
parts so only this is why we're talking
about installments of four days so every
day Israel first will need to seize the
fire I mean we're starting tomorrow
morning Hamas when he sees that he will
need to release the hostages only after
they have been accepted by Israeli side
not just a Red Cross but by Israeli
soldiers then Israel will release its
prisoners there's all these mechanisms
there's also inside the Gaza Strip
another Force this is the Islamic Jihad
the Palestinian uh another militant uh
armed group and they're not officially
part of Hamas and they have the freedom
as they see it to always uh try and act
against Israeli forces so that's also a
very uh sensitive issue Israel promised
um any violations will be responded with
disproportionate um amount of power
which we've seen Israel quite capable of
applying in the last 47 days so um yeah
the qataris the Americans everybody
who's brokering these deals are very
much uh careful for the details
everybody know it's going to be a very
slow progress one step after another
okay what about Israel's northern border
I mean do we know if the agreement also
includes Israeli actions against
Hezbollah in in southern Lebanon um and
if so how How likely is Hezbollah um to
to observe a truce well yesterday was
one of the the most deadly days along
the the border with Lebanon between
Israel and Lebanon so um surprisingly
Israel was expecting today see a lot of
retaliation actually hisbah has been
quite quiet today we've also seen hisbah
leader Hassan asala meeting this morning
with Hamas leaders um and we're
expecting to see the Iranian foreign
minister in Beirut this morning so
obviously these two um these two places
are aligned um
officially however it's not part of the
deal um we have seen hasbalah seeing
himself as a backup for Kamas if there
will be escalation if there be an
unexpected turn of events we probably
will see also healah uh responding with
his escalation but so far it seems like
all sides um that we have been seeing
active in the last couple of weeks
willing to slow things down to
deescalate okay so there's a sense of
hope there but you've also made very
clear how complicated and um tricky the
situation is now we are hearing that
there's an option to extend the truce if
Hamas um releases additional
so do you think that there is a
realistic chance of a longer ceasefire
coming out well there is because Hamas
benefits from more time to regroup
recoup and actually hoping that the
longer it you know Israel pauses its uh
fighting um the long the harder it's
going to get for it to resume fire uh
because of international pressure but
also for technical reasons of what's
happening on the ground so the
assumption is that Hamas will try to
deliver 10 to 12 more hostages every day
in return toist fire that's the formula
I agreed upon the assumption is that
could bring Israel's uh released
hostages to up to 80 and not just a 50
officially agreed upon um and this is
also a bit of concern in Israel mostly
in the right-wing parts of the
government they are afraid Israel will
be drawn uh you know to follow hamas's
lead you know to get in more and more
hostages released and will deviate from
its main goal um to get rid of Hamas
control over Gaza and not to resume the
fight that's the biggest concern we've
seen Nano in all the the cabinet
yesterday meeting trying to reassure
Israel is determined to resume fire once
the deal is done the key is we don't
really know when the deal will be done
all right I mean how many days is going
to take okay but we will be watching
closely our Middle East analyst Shan
rosanis thank you so much shannie now
I'm very pleased to welcome Gilly Roman
brother of yaden Roman from Berry a
German citizen who was kidnapped with
her mother-in-law and sister-in-law
welcome to DW thank you so much for your
time today it's been almost 7 weeks of
heartwrenching uncertainty for you and
the hundreds of family members whose
loved ones were taken hostage by Hamas
on October the 7th can I ask you what
are you feeling right
now first of all it's uh we are feeling
thrilled we we were waiting for this
deal we uh we're very um firm that we
support this deal for the last few weeks
since it came into to critical stages
before approval I think that it's our
moral duty I'm not talking only as a
family member but also just as a human
being and as a Israeli and German
citizen it's our moral duty to start
bring dozens of people back to make to
make sure that they are safe and they
are alive and mostly when we talking
about most vulnerable people like kids
uh and women and uh so I'm excited I
want to see them back already I want to
see the the photos I want to to see this
this change of Dynamics by talking only
about war started talking about life um
of course at the same time I'm pretty
anxious it's not clear if uh among the
women that are related to this uh deal
and the mothers my sister who is also a
mother to a three years old
child uh that she was able to rescue
from being kidnapped is among the people
who are going to be released so we are
anxious and uh we are hopeful it's a mix
of many emotions I can imagine I I did
want to ask you whether you had any more
information about who exactly will be
released no I think that nobody has I
unfortunately I I assume that even our
government doesn't know exactly who is
going to be released and we will
know daily uh as the agreement um
describes as far as my understanding
only the day prior to the release every
day we will know who are the people who
are expected to be released it is
horrible it is painful but this is
Terrorism this is mere psychological
terrorism and we all need to be
resilient and strong in order to go
through
it this is how terrorism is uh
constructed I presume as well that then
you won't know anything about the the
hostages condition whether they're in
good health until they actually are
back well hopefully uh there will be
finally uh be open to a visits of the
Red Cross so far R cross has done U
almost nothing for the Israeli
humanitarian uh issue of this conflict
and they will according to the
Declaration of our prime minister
yesterday they will be given permission
to visit and take care of the hostages
that will not be released so I believe
that that is a step forward can I ask
whether you have been consulted or in
any way way involved in these
negotiations to get the hostages
back no let's not exaggerate nobody's
Consulting me in this uh in this level
we're talking about the highest levels
of professional officials it's not even
a political negotiation it's really an
expert uh negotiation uh of course we
try to
to uh give our 10 cents for the for this
matter and um deliver some uh messages
but it's way above uh our level and I
think it should be like this and that
would enables it to be a professional
negotiation and to get to the uh line
where we are at the moment okay now what
about the remaining hostage hostages not
due to be released in the coming days is
there any sense at all whether they are
still alive
even unfortunately there is no clear
answer to this question the assumption
is that uh many more hostages are alive
Beyond this 50 uh hostages the agreement
also talks about uh hostages beyond the
first 50 or so that if Hamas will be
able to gather them um and to assemble
them uh towards release we'll be able to
continue this humanitarian pause day by
day uh we hope to see that we really
hope to see that that this going not
going to end after 4 days there going to
be a severe continuation of that uh and
then we'll understand how many uh people
at least among the category of women and
children are alive and available for for
release now I believe that much more uh
people are alive and can be released and
that might take
a while
longer but it doesn't mean that after
this deal this is the end of of the
civilians and soldiers that can be saved
I think that we will need to be ready
for more pressure and more resilience
and patient until everybody will be
released I know that many of the
affected families have expressed
concerns that the Israeli military can't
keep pursuing its military campaign
against Hamas while at the same time
trying to secure the safe release of the
remaining hostages but we have heard
from prime minister Netanyahu and I
quote here um to uh continue the war to
destroy Hamas can I ask you for your
reaction to
that I think that U our cabinet has
proven so far that the two goals of uh
dismantling Hamas and um protecting our
our B orders and our security and the uh
ultimate and very sacred uh goal of
bringing the hostages back are not
conflictual at so far the pressure the
military pressure is the only language
we see that Hamas understands and that
what brought us to the point where we
can release so many of our civilians at
the moment so I think that those two
goals as the Prime Minister indicated
are not conflictual but
um uh integrated uh into each other uh
at the same time it's important to say
that it's the military the idea of
responsibility to conduct this operation
in a very conative uh careful Manner and
I think they have proven to uh to be
doing that so far and my expectation and
even demand that it will be conducted as
such also in the also in the long run um
but we want to see all the hostages back
we understand that it might come with
difficulties to the military and we see
already that they're willing to do this
uh to this uh to do this move but we
also want to see a secure and safe uh
Israel for all
citizens Gilly Roman brother of
kidnapped yarden Roman I'd like to thank
you so much for your time and for
speaking to us here on DW thank you very
much thank you thank
you